
The Kies Menu system
The name Kies is the Afrikaans word for choose.
Enabling a user to choose a task he/she wants the computer to perform,
 is the only function of the program.  
On startup, the user hears the number of available options followed by the 
first option on the menu.  browsing through
the available options is done with the up and down arrow keys or by pressing
the first letter of the option's description.

Once the user has heard the desired task, he/she press enter to perform that
task.  When the user exits the activated program, or if the 
program exits by it self,
the user again hears the task as in the menu description.  When moving
through the menu with the up and down arrows the menu will wrap from the
last to the first menu option as would be expected.  
If the first letter of the description is used for navigation, the menu
would wrap among the options starting with the particular letter.
Pressing q exits the
menu.

The user needs to learn the four keys down up enter and quit and that is
all that is required for basic use.

A menu tree IE a menu of menus can be built by using a helper script called
newmenu which creates an empty menu with one option:
add an item to the menu.  Another helper script, kiesadd is used to add an
item to an empty menu.
A new menu can be called from within another menu, giving the tree effect.
Technical details on the Kies menu system
It is written in bash but require hexdump and dd to be installed as it calls a small
 script which uses these commands to handle reading of keys.  The hexdump
and dd commands are part of all Linuxes and Unixes I have ever worked with.  

Kies requires a .kies directory in
the user's $HOME with a text file containing the menu information in the
following format:
description,command.
It has the limitation that commas cannot be used in the description or in
the command.  The kiesadd script asks for the two fields and add it to the
file.  The newmenu script creates a new file in the given format with the
add an item option.
When the newmenu script is executed for the first time by a user, the .kies
directory is created, containing main.txt.

The files, as many as required, are all stored in $HOME/.kies.
A given menu is brought up by the command:
kies menuname.txt.  Kies will look in $HOME/.kies for the file.
Editing an existing menu currently has to be done using a text editor.
Installation:
Copy catchkey, kies, kiesadd and  newmenu
to /opt/kies/bin
Run newmenu as the user to create $HOME/.kies/main.txt.
run kies main.txt as the user and use the add item option to add entries.

Copy kiesmenu to /bin
If you want to have a given user only work from the menu after login, edit
/etc/passwd and change his shell from /bin/bash to /bin/kiesmenu.
The user is then logged out when he quits the menu.
This method has the side-effect that when one tries to ssh to this user from
another machine, the menu and not the shell is called.
This effectively disable the use of ssh with this user's account.

